[Music]
welcome to a new episode of demystifying
digital with sam
and russ russ how are you today mate
yeah good thanks sam how are you
excellent my friend i believe you've got
a spicy
digital analogy for us uh utm tags man
so let's hear all about it
i do i do and i might be showing my age
here so let's just see how this goes
but so basically utm tags is
well it's it's about helping you
properly
track traffic and campaigns that you're
running so let's say you're running a
facebook campaign
and you want uh to be able to see within
your google analytics
that the traffic came from this specific
campaign on facebook or linkedin or
email marketing whatever it is
right so it's attributing each of those
traffic sources
properly now my analogy if i'm going to
tell you a man about this
is let's say you're going out right
you're going out clubbing
and when you walk into a club they used
to do this back in my day but they still
did is you tell me
walk into the club and they go check
your id and then they give you a stamp
boom on your hand and then you walk in
did i still stand people
well i think in the uk we get tagged so
instead of that you're like yeah yeah
that's a paper tag you rip off we can
put onto a similar kind of thing
so a stamp or a tag whatever it is okay
so you're having a good time you're
dancing with your mates and then like
hey we're going to go down the fabric
we're going to go somewhere else cool
let's go
and we're off and as the night goes on
you get a bit hazy you know for whatever
reason
and you might forget exactly what's
going on but you wake up the next
morning and you've either got those
those uh tags or you've got the stamps
on your hand to give you a really good
indication of where you've been
through the night so i was basically
attributing your tracking for the night
before utm tags
nightclub stamps nightclub tags what do
you think
great comparison man thanks back from
um yeah yeah i think it's great because
like you say you can
track the traffic sources much like
you're you're waking up
thinking how many beers that i have last
night oh this is the club that i went i
didn't even know i was in there i was in
there
brilliant love it
excellent